Update to tiling KH page with S2 derivative product grid (#480)
GeoscienceAustralia/dea-knowledge-hub: docs/guides/reference/collection_3_summary_grid.md

Reviewer: I think it's probably time for us to remove all mentions of Collection 2 from this doc, now that we have no remaining Collection 2 grid products. It could help simplify a lot of the introduction in particular.

raster size of $3200 \times 3200$ pixels of $10m^2$

We build Sentinel products using smaller grid tiles to enable more efficient
batch processing given the large data volumes involved.

Both grids are built from the same origin point, so the smaller tile size of
the Sentinel grid fits neatly within the Landsat grid (i.e., nine Sentinel tiles 
fit evenly within one Landsat tile)

For compatibility with file system and web access tools and protocols,
the grid has been defined to be non-negative, with the x00,y00 cell
located in the South-Western corner of the grid, and positive numbers
progressing Northward and Eastward.

The extent of these grids is based upon:

* GDA94 / Australian Albers projection coordinate reference system
  (EPSG:3577),
* Digital Earth Australia's Landsat Collection 3,
* Digital Earth Australia's Sentinel-2 Collection,
* The expanded extents of offshore islands, as detailed in the KH page: [DEA's ARD expanded processing extent](https://knowledge.dea.ga.gov.au/guides/reference/ard-expanded-processing-extent/)

Shown below is an image of both tile grids and their extents, clipped to just the region around 

> mainland Australia so the grid sizes are visible.

Reviewer 2: I feel like there could be a mention that the axes show the lat/lon, to avoid confusion in case someone interpret the numbers as tiles' x and y at a first look

## What are the Collection 3 grids?

Landsat and Sentinel derivative products are built using two distinct grids.

We call these:
* DEA Summary Grid Landsat (Collection 3)
* DEA Summary Grid Sentinel (Collection 3)

The Landsat tile size is defined as $96km^2$. This results
in a raster size of $3200 \times 3200$ pixels of $30m^2$. 

For Sentinel based products, the tile size is $32km^2$ which results in a 
raster size of $3200 \times 3200$ pixels of $10m^2$.
We build Sentinel products using smaller grid tiles to enable more efficient
batch processing given the large data volumes involved.

Both grids are built from the same origin point, so the smaller tile size of
the Sentinel grid fits neatly within the Landsat grid (i.e., nine Sentinel tiles 
fit evenly within one Landsat tile)

For compatibility with file system and web access tools and protocols,
the grid has been defined to be non-negative, with the x00,y00 cell
located in the South-Western corner of the grid, and positive numbers
progressing Northward and Eastward.

The extent of these grids is based upon:

* GDA94 / Australian Albers projection coordinate reference system
  (EPSG:3577),

> * Digital Earth Australia's Landsat Collection 3,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* DEA's Landsat Collection 3,
```

> * Digital Earth Australia's Sentinel-2 Collection,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* DEA's Sentinel-2 Collection 3,
```

> * The expanded extents of offshore islands, as detailed in the KH page: [DEA's ARD expanded processing extent](https://knowledge.dea.ga.gov.au/guides/reference/ard-expanded-processing-extent/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The expanded extents of offshore islands, as detailed in [DEA's ARD expanded processing extent](https://knowledge.dea.ga.gov.au/guides/reference/ard-expanded-processing-extent/)
```

> Shown below is an image of both tile grids and their extents, clipped to just the region around 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Shown below is an image of both tile grids and their extents, clipped to
```

mainland Australia so the grid sizes are visible.

![](/_files/reference/collection_3_grids.png)

## How can I use these grids?

These tiling grids have been used to subdivide processing and
storage of our continental products.
These tiling grids can be used as an overlay in other spatial systems to
determine the `xMyN` reference of a given area of interest from within a
DEA Collection 3 summary product.

## Data access

Use the links below to download the grids (as a GeoJSON), and/or view the grid extents.

[Download the Landsat grid](https://data.dea.ga.gov.au/derivative/ga_summary_grid_landsat_c3.geojson)

[Download the Sentinel grid](https://data.dea.ga.gov.au/derivative/ga_summary_grid_sentinel_c3.geojson)

> [View the Landsat grid in an online map](https://maps.dea.ga.gov.au/#share=s-yUPQrYI0zfAYDldoQSqxzHjpeKx)

Reviewer: We should add both of these grids to the DEA Maps Terria config so users can view them there too. And probably remove the link to the old non-expanded grid:

https://github.com/GeoscienceAustralia/dea-config/blob/master/prod/terria/dea-maps-v8.json#L1500-L1518

* size on disk,
* lossy re-projection of data from native coordinate reference system.

To make information across continental-Australia comparable,  
statistical summary products are produced in a common grid based upon 
Australian Albers (Albers Collection 3 grid). This page
describes how we developed this grid and how it differs from the
previous Australian Albers grid (Albers Collection 2 grid).

## How did we develop the new Collection 3 grids?

Landsat and Sentinel derivative products are built using two distinct grids.

We call these:

> * DEA Landsat Summary Product Grid (Collection 3) and,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* DEA Landsat Summary Product Grid (Collection 3)
```

* DEA Sentinel Summary Product Grid (Collection 3)

The Landsat tile size is defined as $96km^2$. This results

> in a raster size of $3200 \times 3200 pixels$ of $30m^2$. 

Reviewer: "pixels" seems to render weirdly here, I'd be tempted to just use plain text

<img width="779" height="84" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/5eeb7d3f-d4b5-464c-bfa7-8057db94d2f6" />

> For Sentinel based products, the tile size is $32km^2$ this results in a 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For Sentinel-2 products, the tile size is $32km^2$ which results in a 
```

Author: So I explicilty left it as `Sentinel` instead of `Sentinel-2` in case we decide to use this grid for Sentinel-1 based derivatives.

raster size of $3200 \times 3200 pixels$ of $10m^2$

We build products from diferent grid schema because the volume of data

> in Sentinel-2 makes it difficult to run batch processing jobs using the

Reviewer: I'd re-phrase this to focus on the positive, e.g. "We build Sentinel-2 products using smaller grid tiles to enable more efficient batch processing given the large data volumes involved."

* Digital Earth Australia's Sentinel-2 Collection,
* With a 3-cell buffer for future growth.

Shown below is an image of both tile grids and their extents

> ![](/_files/reference/collection_3_grids.png)

Author: I clipped both these images to the `total_bounds` of the `ga_summary_grid_c3.geojson` file.  I'll make reference to the expanded grid.

## How can I use these grids?

These tiling grids schema have been used to subdivide processing and
storage of our continental products.

These tiling grids can be used as an overlay in other spatial systems to
determine the xMyN reference of a given area of interest from within a
DEA Collection 3 summary product.

> Unfortunately, there is no one-to-one mapping of these Albers

Reviewer: As above, tempted to remove as we now no longer have any C2 products

Collection 3 grid to the older Albers Collection 2 grid.

## Shift in origin point

> 

Reviewer: This section (e.g. "For a preview..." in particular) likely needs to be revisited too now that no products use the old unshifted grid. We could probably mention that the grid was shifted on date X, but I don't think we should point out to the old unshifted grid any longer - only the up-to-date Landsat and Sentinel-2 grids.
